Waskom Frontoparietal Submission
================================

This repository contains code for the submitted manuscript *Frontoparietal
representations of task context support the flexible control of goal-directed
cognition*. The code is contained within several IPython notebooks that will
perform the analyses and generate all figures used in the manuscript.

Authors
-------

- Michael L. Waskom
- Dharshan Kumaran
- Alan M. Gordon
- Jesse Rissman
- Anthony D. Wagner

Preprocessing
-------------

Two processing steps were performed outside the scope of the notebooks. First,
the anatomical image for each subject was processed using Freesurfer to
generate the cortical surface models. Specifically, the following command line
was used for each subject:

    recon-all -s $subject -all -3T

Additionally, the functional data were preproccesed with FSL, Freesurfer, and
Nipype using [lyman](http://stanford.edu/~mwaskom/software/lyman). The
processing used the experiment parameters in the `dksort.py` file included in
this repository and was performed with the following command line:

    run_fmri.py -s subjects.txt -w preproc reg -t -reg epi -unsmoothed

Once those commands have been executed, every analysis can be generated using
these notebooks.

Software Versions
-----------------

The versions of all Python software that is available on
[PyPi](http://pypi.python.org/) are contained in the `dependencies.txt` file. 

Other software versions are recorded here:

### MRI Processing

- **Freesurfer**: 5.3
- **FSL**: 5.0

### R Packages

- **R**: 3.0.2
- **lme4**: 0.999999-2

### Lyman

Two different git snapshots of lyman correspond most directly to the analyses.

- [Preprocessing using `run_fmri.py`](https://github.com/mwaskom/lyman/tree/d1c4604bbc7973550175a7eaf1885ebb45774082)
- [Decoding analyses using `lyman.mvpa`](https://github.com/mwaskom/lyman/tree/983c721824d31859383c3b5c5b64569af2f8130e)


Analysis Notebooks
------------------

To reproduce the analyses in the manuscript, the notebooks should be executed
in the following order.

### Mask_Generation.ipynb

Using the label files in `roi/`, warp the ROIs from group space to individual
subject sufaces and write binary masks in functional space.

### Event_Info_Generation.ipynb

Read the `.mat` files generated by PsychToolBox and create

- a master `.csv` file with behavioral and design information and

- specific event files for the decoding analyses.

### ROI_Figure.ipynb

This notebook generates the ROI figure in the manuscript. Unlike the other
notebooks, it requires [PySurfer](http://pysurfer.github.io).

### Behavioral_and_Decoding_Analyses.ipynb

All of the actual analyses are contained within this notebook.

Other Data
----------

### rois/

Freesurfer `.label` files defining the ROIs in common surface space. These
labels were created from files distributed by
[Freesurfer](http://ftp.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/CorticalParcellation_Yeo2011).

### figures/

Figures that are output by these notebooks.

### project.py

The lyman project file that was used to process the data.

### dksort.py

The lyman experiment file for preprocessing the fMRI data.

### subjects.txt

The subject codes used in the processing.

### dependencies.txt

A pip dependencies file that can be used to install a virtual environment with
software versions that were used for these analyses.

License 
-------

The code in this notebook is under a revised BSD license. Other content is
currently covered by a Creative Commons Attribution license (CC BY), pending
final publication.
